# 2.3. VPC Basic Networking Design

### IPv4 vs IPv6 range

If you decide to use and configure IPv4 and IPv6 in your VPC (or Dual Stack Mode), the configurations of IPv4 and IPv6 will be independent of each other.

#### IPv4 Addressing

- Required for all VPCs configuration.
- You choose the private CIDR block.
- You can configure public and private addresses.
- The allowed size for a secondary IPv4 CIDR block is between /28 netmask and /16 netmask.

#### IPv6 Addressing

- Optional in your VPC configuration.
- Has a fixed size of /56 CIDR block.
- AWS automatically assigns the CIDR block. You have no control to select a range.
- There in difference between public and private addresses. Security is controlled with routing and security policies.

#### Subnets

A subnet lives inside one availability zone. In one region, you might have 3 subnets because there are 3 availability zones in the region. In addition, a subnet cannot span more than one availability zone.

#### Security Group

By default, you can have up to 60 inbound rules and 60 outbound rules in a security group. These are managed separately for IPv4 and IPv6 rules, but this question is only using IPv4 rules. For example, a security group can have 60 inbound rules for IPv4 traffic and 60 inbound rules for IPv6 traffic. You can always add another security group to the ENI of the resource — as long as that limit has not been met yet. (You can also request a quote increase for your security group quota; the increase is subject to AWS approval).
